
First, the agenda for today, which consists of 4 main points. First, I'm gonna give a brief overview of the thesis topic. Then I'm gonna introduce myselft, who am I, and why I am suitable for this thesis topic. Then, we're gonna discuss some possible obstacles during this thesis and how to overcome them. And finally, I'm gonna show you the project plan, well, it's just how I schedule the time for each task in this thesis. And then I'm gonna need you to give feedback on the project plan, maybe to improve it. Yeah you know because you have more experience in Master theses than I do.

Okay so first let's get an overview of this thesis. The topic is: Dynamic and Automatic Verification of Security Mechanisms for QUIC. 

Let's talk a bit about the background. We know that there're many QUIC implementations today, and most of them are not mature enough in terms of security. Yeah they're still young and wild. So we want to keep track of their security, and we want to able to assess security considerations from RFC 9000 across various existing QUIC implementations., and also of the new implementations that might come out in the future. So we know that an automated testbed is necessary for security evaluations of different QUIC implementations.

Therefore, we have the goals of this thesis below. First, we want to create a testing environment for different QUIC implementations. Then, we want to develop dynamic testing models to assess security mechanisms in different QUIC implementations. Finally, we want to integrate the testing model into the testing environment so that we can evaluate the security of different QUIC implementations.

Okay so this is the task description for this thesis: First, I will conduct a literature review of the QUIC protocol and its security considerations in RFC 9000. Then I will evaluate related work for creating a testbed for QUIC. After that I will create a testing environment, for example using Docker. Then I will develop dynamic testing models for 2 3 security mechanisms for QUIC, then implement and integrate the dynamic tests into testing environment.

Okay that was it about the thesis topic. Now, I want to introduce myself a bit and tell reasons why I am suitable for this thesis topic.

You've already seen my name on the first slide. So I will not mention it again. Let's talk about my educational background. At the moment, I am Master student in Informatics at the TUM, and I've specialized myself in Security. Previously, I also completed my Bachelor degree in Informatics at the TUM and I conducted my Bachelor Thesis at Fraunhofer AISEC. At the TUM, I attended almost any security courses such as IT Security, Hardware Security, Secure Mobile Systems, and so on. So I can say that I have quite good knowledge about IT Security in general. Besides, I think that I also have solid knowledge in network security, from the Network Security course that I attended when I was in my Bachelor study. And that's also one of the main requirements for this thesis.
Okay, now about the practical experience. I have some experience in designing and implementing secure network protocols. I did that in a project in the Peer-to-Peer Systems and Security course. I also have 3 years of working experience as a penetration tester in web and mobile applications. I also have a Burp Suite Certification for web penetration testing, which I'm really proud of. 

So given my knowledge in Network Security, and  my experience in Security Testing, I hope you can see me as a suitable candidate for this thesis.

So the next slide is about possible obstacles during the thesis that I could think of, and how to overcome them.

The first one: Understanding the intricacies of the QUIC protocol can be challenging. Yeah before this thesis, I just scratched the surface of QUIC in an iLab course at the TUM. But for this thesis, I need to know and understand the details of QUIC. So my solution is to start early with reading the QUIC RFC and relevant literature.
The second obstacle could be that a QUIC implementation might not publicly available. So for that, first I'm gonna seak guidance from the advisors to obtain the implementation. If that's not possible, we can focus solely on assessing available QUIC implementations.
The next possible obstacle is that virtual testing environment with Docker might not work out. So we can consider alternatives such as Containernet, or crafting a testing environment using Python scripts.
The next one: implementing the testing environment and the dynamic security evaluation models might be too technically complex. Therefore, I think I'm gonna start with small-scal prototypes to validates the concepts and identify technical hurdles early.
The next one: A security mechanism cannot be assessed in an automated manner because it could be too complex and require fine-grained manual testing. Well from my working experience as a penetration tester, there're so many things that we cannot test automatically, but requires expertise in manual testing. So in that case, I think I'm gonna document the rationale behind this limitation, provide detailed instructions for manual testing, and proceed with other security mechanisms.
Okay so the last possible obstacle is that it might be challenging to complete this thesis in the allocated timeframe due to the complexity of tasks and unforeseen delays. And my solution is to create a comprehensive project plan to effectively monitor my progress.

Therefore, on the last slide, I want to show you the project plan. So I'm gonna use the first 3 weeks for literature review of the QUIC protocol and its security considerations in RFC 9000. Then, I'm gonna use the next 3 weeks to evaluate related work for QUIC testbed creation. In the next month, I will develop a virtual testing environment with Docker. Then in the next stage, I will iteratively design dynamic testing models, implement and integrate the dynamic tests into the testing environment, and evaluate the gained results. So I plan about 2 months for it. In the following week, I plan time to finalize the thesis and one week buffer for contigencies. 